For Goblin Whispers, the game design will initially be based on rumors and
status within the goblin community.

The idea is that there are brief phases where goblins go off to do
things -- work, relax, sneak, forage, explore or whatever.  The
goblins will need or want to do some of these fairly frequently, so a
goblin might have to go and forage at least a time or three per day,
for instance.

The goblins each have health, status and trustworthiness.  They're
trying to increase status where possible, sometimes by increasing
their trustworthiness.  Health is important because without it, it's
very hard to be active.  Health is basically a determination of how
hard the goblin can work or play, and how often they need to stop to
forage.

Different types of activities can directly affect those statistics,
but mostly goblins affect them by giving information -- telling
stories, sharing information, sharing rumors or making up lies.

In each segment of time, each goblin chooses an activity.  During that
activity, the goblin may also choose to interact with some other
goblin, possibly limited by what activity each chooses -- goblins
could work together, but couldn't talk if one is working and one is
exploring, for instance.  Certain activities (foraging, exploring)
might be solitary or might not.  I'll have to see how it plays before
deciding.

Activities can directly affect trustworthiness, status or health
slightly, but mostly they're opportunities for socializing.

Working would increase status slightly, and possibly trustworthiness.
It would also decrease health somewhat.

Relaxing should allow more socializing.  Perhaps two attempts instead
of one?  It would decrease health slightly (less than working), but
might decrease status since the goblin is lazing rather than working.

Foraging increases health to allow more turns of other activities, but
would prevent at least some kinds of socializing.

Exploring would allow a goblin to come back with artifacts, food or
information, in a random way.  Normally it would decrease health
slightly (more than relaxing, less than working), and add a random
amount of status if successful.  However, it's a solitary activity so
the goblin can have rumors spread about them in their absence.

Sneaking, if allowed, would be a way to spy on other goblins for
information, or sabotage their status or trustworthiness.  It would
decrease health about as much as working does.

To make all of this more fun, it would be important to time when you
did things so that you could, for instance, relax when a trustworthy
goblin did if you wanted to socialize with them.

Socializing would depend who you did it with.  All relaxing goblins
would socialize together, all resting goblins would socialize
together.  Sneaking and exploring goblins wouldn't socialize with
anybody.  Foraging goblins might be able to do some limited
socializing, but not much.

A social action would consist of one of the following:

A goblin can talk to another goblin and impart up to two stories.
Stories can be rumors or useful information.

A goblin socializing with another goblin can make a trade.  The trade
can be for information, objects from exploration, future
considerations or nothing at all.  The trade doesn't have to be in
good faith on either side.  Lying is fine.

Goblins by themselves (unable to socialize with any other goblin, but
not sneaking, foraging or exploring) may make up a lie about another
goblin.

Goblins foraging or working together may share up to one rumor or
piece of information.  Foraging and working goblins may not take other
social actions.

Resting goblins get two social actions instead of one.  They can take
the same action twice, if they want to.  For instance, they could
share up to four rumors in a round.  They could trade with two
different goblins.  Or they could share two rumors and then trade with
one goblin.

A sneaking goblin chooses one other goblin to follow, before knowing
what action that goblin has selected for the round (all actions are
chosen without knowing, though goblins can say what they will do --
and can lie, if they choose).  If the followed goblin is also
sneaking, the value of the first goblin's sneaking is lost.  If the
followed goblin is relaxing, working or foraging, the sneaking goblin
will hear any rumors or information that the goblin gives or receives
in that time.  If the followed goblin is exploring, the sneaking
goblin receives any information the followed goblin finds, but not any
objects, status, trustworthiness or other bonuses.  If the followed
goblin is working, the sneaking goblin may also choose to sabotage
that work, giving negative status and/or trustworthiness for the
round.
